In the last lecture we saw how we can use these error codes and we also saw that we can add our own
validator,
we checked if the name is invalid, the username but typically, you might need to reach out to a web server
to check this.
That however is an asynchronous operation because the response is not coming back instantly,
instead it just takes a couple of seconds.
So we also kind of need asynchronous validators which are able to wait for a response before
returning true or false,
is it valid or not,
turns out we can create such asynchronous validators. So let's create one here in the app component,
I'll name it
forbiddenEmails, this asynchronous validator also takes the control as an argument.
Now we also need to return something here but this will not be an object with an error code and a boolean,
instead this will be a promise which wraps anything or an observable which wraps anything. For the observable,
you need to import it from rxjs/observable
and these are of course two constructs which handle asynchronous data, that's exactly what this validator
is about.
So here, I now want to create a promise in this validator, a new promise it will be which returns us anything
and as all promises, this receives a function with resolve and reject as arguments we can execute in that
function
and in that function, I now want to set a timeout, after one and a half seconds I one to return a response
to simulate the fact that we have an asynchronous task like reaching out to a server.
So this will be the function which gets executed after one and a half seconds, this anonymous function
here and here I will simply check if control value equals test@test.com.
Of course you could also check if it's part of an array,
I will simply check for this single e-mail address.
If this is the case, validation failed and as in the synchronous validator case, this is when I will return
an object with a key-value pair with this error code.
Here of course since we are in a promise, I don't return, I resolve
and again I resolve this object where I say emailIsForbidden, like this,
set this to true
and if we pass this check here,
so in the else case that we have a valid input, that we have a valid e-mail address, I will simply
resolve null.
Now of course, we need to return this promise in the end.
So with this, we set up our asynchronous validator,
now we can add it, let's add it to the e-mail and here you don't add it in this array of normal validators,
instead we use the third argument we can pass to FormControl,
this is an asynchronous validator or an array of such validators, just like the normal validators but reserved
for the asynchronous ones.
So here I will use my forbiddenEmails validator,
again don't execute it, simply pass the reference and you need to bind this if you plan on using this in
there,
I don't so I don't need to do it here,
now let's check if it works. If we compile this and we inspect the e-mail,
it's invalid, if I enter something here,
you see it stays invalid, if I enter test2, closely watch ngInvalid.
Did you see that? It changed to ngPending
because it was evaluating the input, then it changed to ngValid.
Now if I remove the two and therefore I will enter an invalid e-mail address because that's the one we're
checking for, it again switches to pending and then to invalid.
So this is now how the asynchronous validator works
and of course this would work with code where you reach out to the web for example and we correctly
therefore of course see our error message.
So these are asynchronous validators, really easy to add when using the reactive approach as you saw.